# My Story #

## Who is Esteban Sanchez? ##

Esteban Sanchez is a lot of things, a mixed bagged of many interests, from Video Games, Health, Technology (Software and Hardware), Art, Cinema, Basketball, Running, Music, and Literature. I'm a very philosophically and politically involved person, who wishes to create and has a desire to be creative more than to be tied to chairs and desks. I do like to be entrepeneual as well, but it is different, as I truly wish to become the first genuinely creative and honest entrepenuer, someone who values the hard work done by the laborers compared to those whose talent is to think and write. I'm 25 years old, born in Mexico but also a US Citizen, I hold the privilege of being a dual citizen to the US and Mexico. I am very active in my philosophy of altruism and respect for all people. Politically Social Democrat or Socialist Democrat in a sense (I believe that people deserve to have universal rights and access to certain services, especially now that there are more saturated markets and some people can't just hold normal jobs, a basic need is required and we need to destigmatize the idea of helping those who want to create art instead of just work to make ends meat). 

## Career Story ##
I guess I always knew I would either work in tech or in arts, those are my two biggest interest, I was either going to be a Hardware Engineer, a Software Engineer (which I am by degree), an actor ( I do on the side), a writer (I do as a hobby), video editor, cinematographer, film director, an electrical engineer, or even a mechanical engineer. I decided to go for Software, as Hardware is something that, while fascinating, was never my strongest interest, and I was just never that interested in the other engineering careers as much; I also did do art classes and degrees but from other external schools, liek diplomas, but I never studied it as a career in school. 
In 2018 and 2019 I was the captain of the Robotics Team in High School, and was the sole programmer for the machine. 
In 2019 I started college at Tec de Monterrey, a prestigious universrty in Mexico, with many campuses across the nation. I began in my hometown's campus (Hermosillo or "Sonora Norte"), and quickly transfered to the Guadalajara Campus, as Guadalajara as a city is one of the bigger and brighter cities in Mexico with a lot of work and economic growth. Truly love it more than other cities in Mexico. My career title is Computer Science and Engnineering, but we are trained in a curiculum of Software Engineering, not so focused on Computer Science (pure fast coding, more so in design and deveolpment). I also worked during the vacation periods as a contractor with my family for US Manufacturign companies, as an English-Spanish interpretor and also as as supervisor for the technicians and engineers who were doing a rigging service for two different plants. One was done during the winter of 2020 (January, in Fayetteville, NC), and the other when I graduated college in 2023 (from July to Decemebr, in Englewood, NJ (near Manhattan)). 

During my 7th Semester (Aug-Dec 2022), I worked as an Intern in for Development Monitor LLC, a GIS developer that works with Drones and gis photography for creating 3D environments of scanned images for purposes of research and rescue, working with the World Bank to sell different solutions. In my time, we worked with a map of Taiz for infrastructure planning based on historical disaster data to map out danger in the region. I began as a developer for the GIS readings and 3D Interpretation of data in a webapp, using ThreeJS to 3D maps from coordinate blocks extracted via satellite images. Then we hyper focused to solely on Taiz. After my time as an Intern I was promoted to be an assistant supervisor, working as a mentor for other interns and finalizing the hand off. I worked using SCRUM methods as Agile. 

After graduation, as I mentioned, I worked as a contractor but then I got hired full time at Munsa Molinos as their Software Coordinator of a milling company. I have been working with Munsa since January 2024. My resposnabilities are not lmitied in scope to pure software, but also business research and data science to back up plans for investment, and have been in many of the board of directro meetings, using my research to help guide executive choices. 

At the same time, I started my Master's degree during this time, in January of 2024, I started a Master´s in Computer Science and Software Engineering in ASU (Arizona State University), where I plan on graduating by the end of the year 2026, and will be certified in all four major areas: Big Data, Cybersecruity, Software Engineering, AI and ML.


## Edcuation ##

As I stated before, I have two different High school acredited, one college degree majoring in Computer Science and Engineering, at Tec de Monterrey (2019-2023), and currently in Arizona State University (2024-2026). My university (undergrad) GPA is 4.0 and my current accumulated GPA is about 3.68 across College and Masters.

During my time in undergrad, we had interesting projects that were linked directly to companies, as if each class or project was its own internship. We worked with companies like Oracle, IBM, and Cisco, for solving problems in their local office software. Not only that, but we also worked with them in separate projects as sponsors, they would sponsor tools, courses, and certifications. Some notable projects include a whole resource loan website for IBM so that employees can "loan" devices and peripherals out of the office and have a register of who took what and when and when are they to return them; a 3D simulation of a traffic jam using multiagents in python and simulating movement in ThreeJS, all running on IBM Cloud, a F1 simulator that predicts outcomes based on a list of about 36 different inputs and is trained on historical data, it also returns the defining factor for victory in each race, this was fueled by Oracle and even uses Oracle cloud services to run the simulation and train the neural network. A simulated Office Network using Cisco, certification on the essentials of AWS, and a video game using Unity. 

AS a side tangeant on games. I actually know how to make games in Unity and in Unreal Engine, I was in a video game development contest in high school using Unreal and the node programming scheme. We got second place!

So waht else is there in education. During my Masters, I have learned how to do ML using basic language and made a decision machine in ASP, I worked in pwncollege excercises to simulate phishing, injection, and OS hacking, I learned how to build my own firewall, a lot of classification algorithms, a big data analysis on long time use of a Glucose Monitor, and so much more. It has been fun and exciting.

